A mission like this requires a lot of work and labor. First is the group of scientists who plan and design the mission. Then there is a navigation team, a group that analyzes the data retained from the probe, and finally there are the people who manufacture of the probe. All of this is done with a coalition of multiple companies.


NASA currently has occupations in five categories: Professional, Engineering, and Scientific; Administrative and Management; Clerical and Administrative support; Technical and Medical Support; and Pathways programs. NASA’s facilities are located in California, Texas, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Virginia, Ohio, Maryland, and the NASA headquarters in Washington D.C.. Wages for specialized jobs at NASA range from 45,000 to 160,000 dollars a year. (http://nasajobs.nasa.gov/)

At NASA, employees get job security along with a pay based on government standards and cost of living with increases for experience and an incentives program, health care, safety and wellness programs, sick leave, disability protection, life insurance, retirement plans, etc.(http://nasajobs.nasa.gov/benefits/benefits.htm). NASA also has two major labor organisations: the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), and the International Federation of Professional and Technical Careers (http://nasapeople.nasa.gov/labor/index.htm).

NASA’s success has not gone without problems. In 2009, NASA’s jet propulsion laboratory had a hiring freeze in order to give employees priority over new applicants. They were still able to make exceptions to hire new employees for jobs that require much needed talent (www.jpl.nasa.gov/universe/archive/un0906.pdf). More recently, a bill has been proposed by the House Science, Space, and Technology committee to cut NASA’s funding for earth science programs by more than 300 million dollars. This proposals has been met with much protest. This bill would significantly reduce spending on projects to study the climate of the earth and to predict weather patterns (washingtonpost.com).

Although the New Horizons mission is run by NASA, it employs other organizations to create a coalition of companies all working for the same purpose. The team leaders of this mission are the Southwest Research Institute (SwRI) and the Johns Hopkins university Applied Physics Laboratory (APL). Both of these two institutions handle the management of the mission. There are many other contributions made: Ball Aerospace created the Ralph Instrument; Boeing manufactured the STAR48B upper stage rocket system; the Department of Energy (DoE) made the power supply; KinetX, Inc provided the navigation team; NASA provided the launch services program, made the LEISA infrared focal plane for the Ralph instrument, and does the technical analysis; Stanford runs the REX radio science investigation; the university of Colorado does Co-I support; and finally, the Subaru Telescope provides the mission with Kuiper Belt object support.  The New Horizons mission is clearly an accomplishment that requires labor of all sorts (http://pluto.jhuapl.edu/Mission/The-Team.php).
